0. Summary

Comprehensive intro to the equations:

importance
history
use in computational models:
    CIG: ConMan, ASPECT, Taras Gerya

1. Introduction

Introduce the entire set of Mantle Convection equations that we are
studying:

Incompressible Stokes equations
div u = 0
advection diffusion equation for the temperature
Boussinesq approximation to the density

Explain that we are considering the most basic set of equations, since our
goal is to demonstrate how to non-dimensionalize these equations in a
simple setting.

2. Importance

Mention that these equations are used to model convection in the
Earth's mantle.

Reference Turcotte and Schubert's big book and other references you are aware of.
Do your best to describe in some detail.

3. History

Track down the origin of the use of these equations (the first
published incidence).

ADD SOURCE:
Barenblatt: Scaling, pp. 59-63
SUMMARY:
Neglecting the contribution of viscous dissipation to the thermal balance is acceptable for thin layers of fluid, but not thick layers like in the mantle.

4. Use in computational models

Mention that these equations are used in a variety of computer models
of Mantle Convection:

ASPECT
Tara Gerya's Finite difference code (reference his book: Introduction to Numerical Geodynamic Modelling 2009)
etc.

often with additional terms representing, for example, heating from
inside the mantle. List some other physics that can be added to the
equations we consider. For example, see the 2012 ASPECT paper.


PROBABLY INCORRECT:
Finally, I think equations (1.1) & (1.2) are in Euclidean or Cartesian
coordinates.  Since they are not in spherical coordinates, it is probably
not true that e_z is normal to the Earth's surface. It's OK for us to do
the analysis in rectangular coordinates, just explain that we are
considering a simple version of equations that can have a much wider
applicability given appropriate changes to the equations.  You can list a
few of these changes!; e.g., spherical coordinates (reference Turcotte and
Schubert), etc.

NOTES:

1. Look at the middle of Tucotte, Schubert & Olson "Mantle Convection in the Earth and Planets", where Schubert lists a number of different systems of PDEs that can be used in modeling  Mantle Convection in the Earth and Planets.